[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In the very heart
of eternal China,
between misty valleys
and lofty peaks,
nestles a land where
time seems suspended.
Here, nature and the
arts dwell in harmony.
These majestic
landscapes gave rise
to some of the
greatest treasures
of Chinese civilization.
But the ancient temples that
embraced the steep slopes
harbored a single facet.
For the sacred
mountains of Wudang
conceal many untold
secrets, the cradle
of Taoism of traditional
medicine, and of martial arts.
The Wudang is a
mountain range located
in the Hubei province
in central China
about 1,200 kilometers
south of Peking.
It covers more than
400 square kilometers
and consists of a succession of
steep peaks and deep ravines.
The very humid
climate of the region
shrouds these suspended
valleys in a perpetual mist,
lending the region
an aura of mystery.
In this spectacular
setting, clinging
to the rocky slopes
of the mountain,
is a vast complex of medieval
temples and monasteries.
These buildings form a
group of more than 60 sites
now inscribed by UNESCO on
the World Heritage list.
Apart from its exceptional
architectural merit,
it was from this unique
region that Taoism flourished.
The oldest buildings date
from the seventh century.
But most of them were
built in the 15th century
during the Ming Dynasty, when
the emperor Zhi Di undertook
a series of massive construction
projects, the most famous
being the Forbidden
City in Peking.
The emperor sent over 20,000
soldiers to the Wudang
mountains in order
to construct temples
in honor of Xuanwu, an
important Taoist god.
According to legend, Xuanwu
was born into a royal family,
but renounced the
throne at the age of 15.
He then retired here as a
hermit in order to seek truth.
After four decades as an
ascetic, he flew to heaven
and became immortal.
In the past, this magnificent
three meter dragons
head carved from solid rock
and poised over a sheer drop
had served as an incense burner.
Here, intrepid worshipers
would defy the precipice
in order to display
their piety to the god.
Today after praying,
visitors simply
throw a coin into this bowl.
The architectural diversity of
the sacred buildings of Wudang
is highly representative
of the art and architecture
of the successive
ruling dynasties.
It attests to the genius of a
thousand years of civilization.
Some of the temples and
monasteries are still active.
Monastic tradition
remains alive here,
despite having
fallen into disuse
during the mid 20th century.
In an attempt to eradicate
traditional values,
the Cultural Revolution,
set in motion by Mao Zedong,
suppressed all forms
of religious beliefs.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Many temples in
China were destroyed.
But the remote Wudang
complex escaped destruction.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The Taoist
religious community,
which fled during the purge, has
since returned and now shares
Wudang with hordes of tourists.
Chinese visitors, eager to
reclaim the forgotten side
of their cultural
heritage, are increasingly
numerous in the region.
The recent emergence of
a middle class in China
has provoked a surge in tourism.
For these new holiday
makers, Wudang
is a popular destination,
both for the beauty
of the landscape, as well as
the inestimable religious sites
found here.
There are, for example, about
1,500 bronze, iron, wood,
or stone statues,
as well as hundreds
of sacrificial
objects, not to mention
numerous classical paintings
and prehistoric carvings
sculpted right into the rock.
But large crowds of tourists
do pose certain problems.
To fully discover
this extensive site,
visitors need to stay
in Wudang several days.
As a result, gigantic
hotel complexes
have been built in the
vicinity of the park.
In order to preserve
its fragile environment,
private vehicles are
banned inside the park.
There is, however,
a vast network
of gas-powered shuttle buses.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Given the distances that
separate the different temples,
these buses are indispensable
for visiting the various sites.
But hiking the steep
trails is still
the best way to discover the
real feeling of the place
and to meet the
monks who live there.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Not far from the sites,
in Wudangshan City,
the heritage of the past
mixes with the present.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Taoist precepts influence
many aspects of daily life.
Traditional Chinese medicine is
a prime example of this trend.
Its origins are lost
in the midst of time.
Traditional Chinese
medicine holds
that the health of the body and
that of the mind are linked,
and that illness
is the consequence
of an incorrect
circulation of energy,
the vital energy called Qi.
Qi flows through the
body along meridians
associated with different
organs and viscera.
Illness results from an
obstruction of this vital flux.
Practitioners must
thus determine
the cause of the disorder and
redirect the flow of the energy
by acting upon certain
precise points,
notably through acupuncture.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> For stomach pains
it's this point.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> I feel energy
gathering in the center.
>> Other practices associated
with Taoism can improve
the flow of Qi in the body
and even attain harmony with
the Tao.
Tao, roughly translated
as the path or the way,
is the fundamental concept that
designates the natural order
of the universe.
Tao is the ultimate
goal of all Taoists,
a state of complete
self-realization,
the promise of
creativity and longevity.
Wudangshan City is a good
base for visiting the Wudang
mountains.
The crowds of tourists
are an important source
of income for the town, which is
mostly inhabited by people who
migrated from the
surrounding countryside,
in the hope of improving
their living conditions.
Night markets are
very popular in China.
Visitors mix with
the local people,
who like to go for a walk
at nightfall and shop
for their evening meal.
Appetizing aromas from
the mobile food carts
fill the air with the variety
of gastronomic specialities
that attest to the diversity
of Chinese cuisine.
Here, consumers buy exotic
fruits and vegetables
directly from producers.
In Wudangshan, modern
lifestyles are gradually
replacing traditional ways.
As in all Chinese cities,
motor traffic is very heavy.
The contrast with the
peaceful atmosphere
of the sacred
mountains is striking.
We leave the noisy city for the
tranquility of the mountains.
Not far from the
ancient temples,
Taoist discipline can be seen
in the teaching of the arts.
In the heart of the wilderness,
in this small isolated village
on the slopes of the
Wudang mountains,
a music school
perpetuates the art of one
of the oldest traditional
Chinese musical instruments.
Inspired by this landscape
so ideal for contemplation,
students devote themselves
to the study of the guqin.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> This plucked string
instrument is a type of zither.
About a meter long, it has
seven strings, traditionally
of twisted silk cord.
Called the instrument
of the sages,
guqin music embodies all the
refinement and sophistication
of Chinese civilization.
There are not many luthiers
who still make the guqin
by traditional methods.
But this music school is
also renowned for the quality
of its instruments.
There are a great many clients.
But the construction of guqin
is a long and complex process.
Buyers wait for over 10
years for their instrument.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The extremely soft and
subtle sound of the guqin
makes it a very difficult
instrument to play.
The slightest
nuance of fingering
produces very different tones.
Mastering the guqin requires
about 20 years of practice.
Today, there are less than
1,000 accomplished performers
and only about 50
recognized masters.
The classical guqin
repertoire once
comprised thousands of works.
But today, only about
100 pieces still exist.
These complex compositions evoke
the history, the mythology,
and the philosophy of
this great civilization.
The emotional depth
of this instrument
is based on the harmony between
the complementary forces
of fullness and emptiness,
of yin and yang.
Here again, we find the
basic precepts of Tao.
Playing the guqin is
a form of meditation.
Indeed, classical
Chinese paintings
often depict the
instrument in the hands
of a solitary ascetic lost in
the contemplation of nature.
Wudangshan National Park is an
important botanical sanctuary.
It contains numerous
medicinal plants.
More than 800 are rare species.
The most renowned of them
all is, of course, tea.
Tea plants are
grown on terraces,
which follow the natural
contours of the slopes
at altitudes between
800 and 1,200 meters.
Wudang Dao Cha, a noted
variety of green tea,
is the harvest of young
leaves plucked just
after the rainy season.
Cultivated using
ancestral skills,
it's one of the most exported
agricultural products
of the Hubei province.
According to a famous Chinese
proverb, a cup of tea day
will forever keep
the doctor away.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Many medicinal properties
are attributed to tea.
It's powerful antioxidants have
an anticancer action, as well
as reducing hypertension
and the development
of cardiovascular diseases.
Theanine found in tea is an
excellent anti-stress remedy.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> This tea served three times
will have a very different
taste each time.
>> Tea is highly appreciated
by the Chinese for all its
therapeutic properties.
Far from being a
mere beverage, tea
is a genuine social and
culinary institution found
in all aspects of daily life.
Tea is also inseparable
from Taoism.
To reveal its most
noble attributes,
tea must be prepared
according to
a strictly codified procedure.
Chinese tea culture
is an ancient art,
which also serves as a
technique of concentration
and is taught to the
young monks of Wudang.
Tea helps to soothe
the body and the mind.
It lends itself to meditation.
Its subtle taste allows one to
enter into harmony with nature.
Taoists consider it to
be an elixir of youth,
useful in their quest
for immortality.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
By nightfall, the
mountains are empty.
The hikers are gone.
And serenity returns.
The monasteries
sleep peacefully.
Every day at 5:00
in the morning,
the nuns of the
Purple Cloud Temple
celebrate a ritual service.
The Taoists of Wudang belong to
the Quanzhen school, which is
known for its open-mindedness.
Since its origins, women have
been welcome in the order.
They can even become priests.
The nuns officiate
to the accompaniment
of traditional music.
They read sacred texts
and chant liturgical songs
in the presence of the faithful,
under the benevolent gaze
of the statues of the immortals.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Whereas most monastic
communities live in seclusion,
the monks of Wudang
openly welcome the public.
They sometimes
even invite layman
to participate in the service.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
A priestess presides over
the rest of the ceremony
before an altar prepared
for the occasion.
Her traditional
dress is decorated
with embroidered motifs
of symbols representing
the sky and the earth, the
natural elements, animal
and plant life, and the
virtues of the spirit.
She also wears a tall
black Taoist headdress
capped by a small golden crown
with small chiming pearls.
The faithful kneel,
bow, and rise,
following the rhythm
of the ceremony.
Incense is omnipresent
in Chinese spirituality.
It has been used for
thousands of years.
It's a link between
the Earth and the sky,
because its smoke is reputed
to carry prayers to heaven.
Incense also serves to
purify a holy places
and their occupants.
The more superstitious Chinese
use it every day at home.
And they must go at
least once a month
to burn a joss
stick in the temple.
Over time, Taoism has assumed
the aspects of a religion,
while mixing with
popular beliefs.
But its origins are more akin
to philosophical teaching.
You have to lose yourself
in the forest to seek out
the roots of this doctrine.
This little temple,
known only initiates,
is dedicated to Lao Tzu.
Often represented as an old man
with an eternally white beard,
he is thought to have lived
between the sixth and fifth
centuries BC at the same time
as another influential thinker,
Confucius.
Lao Tzu is considered
as the father of Taoism
and is author of its
founding book, "Tao Te Ching
(Book of the Way
and of Virtue)."
Written in verse,
the "Tao Te Ching"
is a collection of metaphoric
maxims with enigmatic meanings.
Contrary to the
philosophy of Confucius,
which seeks to improve human
relations through morals,
Taoism refutes life in society.
To find inner peace,
the individual
must follow the Tao,
the way, in order
to attain the balance
between the opposing
forces of the yin and the yang,
the visible and the invisible,
the light and darkness.
This harmony is to be found
in the imitation of nature,
wild and authentic.
Taoist conceptions of
the world have influenced
certain ancestral practices.
The most eloquent example is
certainly that of martial arts.
Contrary to Kung Fu, a
so-called external martial art,
inherited from the Buddhist
monks of the Shaolin school,
the Taoist monks
of Wudang developed
a style called internal that
considers interior strength
superior to muscular strength.
Tai Chi stems from
this approach.
The Wudang style is attributed
to a wandering monk who retired
here with his disciples.
According to legend,
he had a revelation
while watching a crane
and a snake fighting.
The reptile's suppleness
and continuous movement
allowed it to escape the
bird's frenzied attack.
From this, the monk formulated
the founding principles
of the internal
arts, the primacy
of suppleness over rigidity, of
the intellect over brute force.
A discipline grew
out of this school
called Qigong, literally
the mastery of vital energy.
It is practiced by
thousands of enthusiasts
throughout the country.
And its practice focuses
on spiritual aspects
and on mastering breathing.
A type of martial
gymnastics, Qigong
is based on slow movements
that produce mastery
of the flow of energy
through the body.
Breathing techniques are at
the heart of the training.
It's also a form
of meditation that
has proven health benefits.
Not far away, an
old man indulges
in quite another
discipline, calligraphy.
Despite appearances,
this art also
calls for breathing techniques,
and precise postures,
and the same demand
for concentration.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Chinese writing known for
its particular graphic style is
based on the use of ideograms,
graphic symbols that encompass
the meaning of a
word or an idea.
The signifier and
signified are united
in a line of evocative beauty.
Chinese characters
are said to have
been invented almost 3,000
years BC by a legendary sage.
Equipped with two
pairs of eyes, he
could perceive the
profound nature of things
and reproduce them with
a corresponding symbol.
Over the centuries,
the art of calligraphy
became the prerogative
of scholars.
With their knowledge
of spiritual texts
and literary classics,
they played a dominant role
in the imperial regime
and in Chinese society.
Far from being a simple
communication tool,
calligraphy in China
is a major art form
whose aesthetic has permeated
all other plastic arts.
Beyond its mere
beauty, it requires
technique and concentration.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Those are Chinese
paintings of animals.
>> Once his work is completed,
he places a seal on it.
More than a simple
signature, it's
a form of art in its own right.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Throughout the whole
country, breakfast
is one of the most important
moments of the day.
It is, therefore, a real meal,
served hot and often savory.
It's customary to
eat it out of doors.
Baozi are little
bread rolls that
are stuffed and steam cooked.
They're very popular.
And there are a great
variety of them.
The dough is usually made
from wheat flour and water.
Different types of stuffing
include meat or vegetables
that are wrapped in
this leavened dough.
And then the whole
thing is steamed.
There's also a sweet variety
stuffed with a red bean paste.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Another well-known
speciality, noodles,
are the basis of an infinite
number of dishes garnished with
vegetables or meats in sauces.
Soups are equally popular.
There are all sorts,
rice or vegetable
based with eggs, meat, or fish.
Often the Chinese eat them
accompanied with hot soy milk.
In the streets that are already
very busy at this early hour,
wandering street vendors
and little stalls
trying to tempt customers with
their homemade specialities.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Youtiao, literally
translated as long fried piece,
is a donut cooked
in vegetable oil.
Composed essentially of
flour, water, and salt,
this speciality is eaten in
various ways, often dunked
in soy milk.
In general, the Chinese are
fond of fries of all kinds,
be they donuts,
meat, or even skewers
of insects and reptiles.
Customers congregate here
on their way to work.
And it's not uncommon
for these restaurants
to close once
breakfast time is over.
Framing is an essential stage
to perfect the work that
has been accomplished on
very thin rice paper, which
is used because the ink
dries rapidly on it.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The calligraphy must
first be affixed to a vacuum.
That's to say, glued on a
more rigid support, often
a canvas that
reinforces the paper
and ensures better
preservation of the work.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The whole thing is then
pressed to remove any bubbles
of air.
Bands of silk chiffon are
added that enrich the frame,
providing shades of
hues and textures.
Finally, thin strips
of wood are placed
at the ends that
will be used to hang
the finished work on the wall.
It was in China that
paper was invented.
And gluing techniques
date back to antiquity.
Framing is not a mere
amenity, but a true art
that creates around
the work a space
conducive to its contemplation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Built on the highest
peak of the mountain
called the Celestial Pillar,
reigns the jewel of Wudang
temples, the Golden Sanctuary.
All year long, crowds hurry
here to visit this monument.
But today, numbers
are even greater,
because it is the ninth
day of the ninth month
of the Chinese calendar.
And is 9 o'clock in the morning.
According to
popular belief, this
is the moment the
dragon awakens.
The more superstitious Chinese
come to the sanctuary in droves
to burn incense and thus bring
luck for the year to come.
Access to the summit is
through a very narrow passage.
While the ascent usually
takes around 15 minutes,
it can take up to four
hours on a very busy day.
The Golden Sanctuary
is composed entirely
of bronze imitating wood.
All of its elements, from
the tires to the pillars,
including the doors and the
beams, are made of this metal.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The elements were
prefabricated in Peking
and transported up to the
summit of the mountain to be
assembled.
The builders went to such pains,
because the mountain is not
just a simple backdrop.
Here, the landscape is truly
sacred and nature venerated.
The peak of the
Celestial Pillar is
one of the five sacred
mountains of the empire.
And it is thought to hold up the
Heavenly Vault, the passageway
of men to the heavens.
In the lower part
of the temple is
the Palace of Harmony
of the Great Summit,
which houses the Hall
of Imperial Books,
as well as that of
Imperial Scriptures.
Here, the monks can consult holy
texts, an important activity
of monastic life to which they
devote one hour every morning
and another in the evening.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> On the grills and
wooden partitions,
precious ornaments include
figures from tales and other
fantastic animals, reflecting
the beliefs and aesthetic
of the Qing Dynasty.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> After a day's visiting,
tourists can enjoy eating
at the many little
stores on their way home.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> To understand
the soul of Wudang,
you need sometimes to lose
yourself in the mountain
and not to be afraid of
leaving the beaten track.
In the very depths
of the forest,
at the end of an
ancient sacred path
that winds into the
mountain, is a mythical cave.
This is where the
hermit who invented
the internal
martial arts retired
to theorize on the
principles of Tai Chi
and where he became immortal.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> A little statue
commemorates this legend.
And it is customary
to bow in front of it.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Inside the cave, a kitchen
has been built. At lunchtime,
there is great activity
around the cooker.
Even today, the cave
is occupied by a hermit
whose retreat is not as
serene as his predecessors.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Do you practice Qigong
and Tai Chi in the morning?
>> Every day, a volunteer
prepares his lunch that he has
the pleasure of eating
with his visitors,
satisfying their
thirst for his wisdom.
The hermit offers each of
them a little a welcome gift
without expecting
anything in return.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Despite his great age, he
continues to practice austere
Taos to asceticism.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> There's no
problem, no worries.
>> Wrapped in a mysterious mist,
the monasteries of Wudang seem
to be outside of time.
But in reality, thousands of
helpers are busy in the wings
to keep them running properly.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The proximity of the mountain
ranges are means of livelihood
for the surrounding
towns and villages.
The popular districts
of city suburbs
provide a diverse workforce.
Peasants, workers, and
craftsmen, dozens of trades
take part in supplying
the goods and services
necessary to the
maintenance of the site.
This traditional factory still
recently produced the tiles
that cover temple roofs.
In this workshop, all
stages of manufacturing
were manual, a
remarkable know how,
as well as hard
labor that provided
a living for dozens of workers.
But a few years ago,
the Chinese state
closed a good number of
tile making factories
for environmental reasons.
In fact, this industry is
quite energy intensive.
And cooking the clay
creates a thick black smoke
that is extremely polluting.
Here, this oven was
destroyed by the authorities.
And the factory has
since remained inactive.
With their characteristic
curved shape,
the roofs contribute
greatly to the charm
of the local landscape.
They are also admired
for the richness
of their intwining
ornamental ridge tiles.
In spite of their
refinement, they
will remain stocked
here, doomed to oblivion.
And yet, this pile
of tiles could
have quite a different fate.
In fact, some Wudang
edifices have not
resisted the test of time
and are, today, in ruins.
Well away from the bustle
of the tourist route,
the Wudang keeps one of
its proudest examples.
The Temple of Wulong Gong, or
the Palace of the Five Dragons,
was the first
Taoist edifice to be
built in Wudang,
marking the beginning
of a great spiritual venture.
Legend relates that
at the beginning
of the seventh century,
a great drought
struck the middle empire.
The governor of Wudang
managed, through prayer,
to make rain fall.
The emperor rewarded
him by ordering
the construction of the Hall
of the Dragon in his province.
Successive emperors used
Taoism to impose their power.
They enhanced the site
with new buildings
to mark history
with their grandeur.
This was how the
Hall of the Dragon
was transformed into
a temple, and then
the Palace of the Five Dragons.
Today, access is
highly controlled.
It takes four to five hours
walking through the forest
to be able to admire it.
Having reached it, you
can, in total peace,
truly appreciate the
splendor of the site.
Here, more than in any
other Wudang temple,
you're transported in time.
Cinema fans will indeed
recognize this setting
as that used in many martial
arts films, from "Karate Kid"
to "Tigers and Dragons."
Taoism has left its imprint
on the ancient history
of the country.
Its precepts applied to the
smallest aspects of daily life
have crossed the
ages to endure today.
Its teachings continue to
spread, influencing the arts,
shaping bodies,
and freeing souls.
Defying the laws of nature to
prove their devotion to it,
the Chinese people
have managed to find
in the sacred
mountains of the Wudang
their quest for immortality.
[MUSIC PLAYING]